Review child lifetime doco page (#4426)
Particular/docs.particular.net: nservicebus/dependency-injection/child-lifetime.md

---
title: Child containers
summary: Child containers allow for more granular instance lifetime configuration.
component: Core
reviewed: 2019-07-08
redirects:
 - nservicebus/nservicebus-support-for-child-containers
 - nservicebus/containers/child-containers
---

> Child containers are essentially a snapshot of the main container providing an additional instance lifetime scope. Instances configured with child container lifetime are treated as singletons within the scope of the child container. This is useful to scope instances for the duration of a web request or the handling of a message in NServiceBus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Child containers are a snapshot of the main container providing an additional instance lifetime scope.
```

## Child container scope in NServiceBus

> NServiceBus creates a child container for each transport message that is received. This means that all child container scoped instances created during message processing are scoped as singletons within the child container lifetime. This supports sharing of database sessions and other resources with lifetimes specific to the processed message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NServiceBus creates a child container for each transport message that is received. This means that all `InstancePerUnitOfWork` scoped instances created during message processing, are scoped as singletons within the context of processing each message. This is helpful to support the sharing of database sessions and other resources with lifetimes specific to the processed message.
```

Objects can be configured in a child container scope using the `InstancePerUnitOfWork` lifetime:

snippet: InstancePerUnitOfWorkRegistration

## Deterministic disposal

> Instance lifetime is usually not tracked by the main instance (Windsor is an exception) and that means that manual disposal is required on any instance that needs deterministic disposal. Child containers solve this issue by automatically disposing all instances created within each specific child lifetime. This is useful to managing things like the database sessions.

Reviewer 2: The term instance is used three times in this sentence and I suspect (but do not know) that it is referring to at least two different things.

Author: I've simplified that section, have another look 👍
